Hymns:: #593, #407 
Speaker:: #mniu
Subject:: Dealing with the Spirit (spirit)

-
- Message
	- Verse Recitation
		- ((b048c006-a001-b1b1-b1b1-b1b1b1b1b1b1)): all the brothers that need this memorize. I hope you take this to heart.
		- ((b060c003-a004-b1b1-b1b1-b1b1b1b1b1b1)): all the sisters that need this memorize. This verse comes in a context for sisters, the adornment. Brother Lee somewhere has a really marvelous message (or fn.) on the matter of shame-fastness(?) in the eyes of God. This is one of the top virtues a sister can have.
		- ((b047c007-a001-b1b1-b1b1-b1b1b1b1b1b1)). I'm sure this verse applies to all of us. We all need this verse.
	- Opening Word (I.)
		- Dealing with the spirit. Up until now, we have covered dealing with the flesh, with the conscience, with the self, and with the world. A lot of dealings. Dealings are a big part of the Christian life. The dealings are not just for dealings' sake, but it's so that the Christ as life in us can grow. Christ as life in us wants to grow, but there are all these hinderances in us, so we have to deal with these impediments.
		- Even if we love the Lord, follow the Lord, even serve the Lord, if we want to have spiritual gifts in our service, or spiritual power in our living of the gospel that we preach, the power of the gospel, the only real way enabling us to do that is by having all these dealings: dealings of the flesh, conscience, self, and the world.
		- Read A. All these **descriptors** are very informative. With the flesh, we need to know how to deal with the flesh; how to put to death the practices of the body ((b045c008-a013-b1b1-b1b1-b1b1b1b1b1b1)), how to reckon our flesh as death. With our self, we have to shave. We have to practice until it's a habit of dealing with the self. With the conscience, the problem is that we have dealings of the conscience, and then we begin to neglect it, forget about it. Finally with the world, the only way we can deal with the world is by paying a price, even a sacrifice (the ultimate sacrifice is ourselves).
		- B. If we want to grow, or even if we want to help others grow, the key is to know ourselves, to help others to know, how to deal with their conscience. The ones that we care for, the new ones, especially the young people, we realize that our conscience is part of our spirit. All that is an exercise of the spirit. Especially the vast majority, especially for our young people, should be in dealing with our conscience. Not shouting in the meetings, but it's the inner operating, shining, dealing with the conscience, agreeing with the Lord as He shines in our being.
		- Brother Lee talks about this. Every time you deal with your conscience, there are probably 10 other things that you need to deal with. But you don't go searching for those things. You open to the Lord, you allow Him to shine on you, and that which He shines on you, you deal with in a proper way. Your repentance needs to match the sphere of your offense. If you said something to just one person, then you apologize to that one. But if you were in the sphere of another brother, who heard you say those things, then you have to go and deal with him, tell him that it was not proper. **The sphere of our repentance needs to match the sphere of our offense.**
		- 1. "If we neglect our conscience, we may gain much self-knowledge, but we
		  cannot have even a little spiritual growth." This is a strong point. We have to check with our young people in this way, if they are growing in life. I found out my neighbors had years ago met with the church, but they felt like (they didn't say it critically) they were very good in the truth, but they wanted a place that was more fitting for them. It would be a shame, because what they meant was they needed a place to grow in life. So we need to check with ourselves. Are we dispensing knowledge, or are we helping the ones under our care to grow in life?
		- 2. There's a good conscience, pure conscience, conscience without offense, which is in a condition of constant peace and rest with God. A good conscience has been dealt with. A pure conscience is one without mixture. The conscience is part of the heart. So the conscience needs to be pure. In other places in the ministry: the conscience needs to be purified. In other words, we all start off with a mixed heart, with so many intents. Many times when we do things, it's not just to minister Christ, but to look good while doing it. We joke around with the brothers in the training, I enjoyed your message and you looked good while doing it. That shows a mixed motive. **We need to be those who are pure channels of life. When we minister Christ, we minister just Christ, not Christ plus ourselves.** A good conscience, a pure conscience, a conscience in a constant state of peace and rest with God.
		- 3. Our conscience is like a window. We know the function of a door is for us to pass through. The primary function of a window is not to allow you to look out or look in, because that's to remain where you are. The primary function of a window is an opening, to allow something to pass through it. The primary function of a window is to allow light in. That's your conscience. **Your conscience is the window of your being to allow the divine light to come in, shine, expose, and even convict.** We're talking about allowing light to come into your being.
		- When you are in a situation of light, there is order, there is regulation. If I plunge this place into darkness, it will be chaos, confusion. In other words, when light comes into our being, there's no longer any chaos and confusion, but the Spirit comes in with its regulating power. It allows us to tell what is of myself and what is of the Lord. The only way you can tell, you can discern, is by allowing that light to come. That light comes in to divide soul from spirit. It's the light that allows us to see what is of ourself, or our flesh.
		- If we neglect our conscience, then that window gets darkened. Every sin, offense, puts a little smudge, dirt, opaqueness and darkness. To neglect our conscience is really to put spiritual blinds, which causes you to not be able to see.
		- C. Keep our flesh and self under a strict dealing. It is true we need the blood when dealing with our conscience. But to keep our flesh and our self under the strict dealing, it requires more than the blood. It requires the cross. The cross plays a huge, a central role in the Christian life. The flesh is part of the old creation, the self is part of the old creation. We should be familiar by now the definition of the old creation and the new creation. **The new creation is with the element of God; the old creation is devoid of the element of God. God is newness itself**, and so when you have God, you have newness. The difference between the old creation and the new creation is not merely that one has the element of God, but **the new creation is when something has passed through a process to gain an element of God. That process includes not just the infusion of the element of God, but the termination of that which is old, and then the germination of that which is old.** In other words, to have the new creation, you have to pass through the cross. If you don't pass through the cross, there will be no germination. You can say the cross is the dividing line between the old creation and the new creation. We need to pass through the cross, and that which is of our old creation gets terminated and germinated as the new creation.
		- From *The Normal Christian Life*. He highlights the difference between the blood and the cross. Seven differences. The first contrast is: the blood is for our redemption; the cross is for our salvation. The blood is for our pardon (from sins); the cross is for our deliverance (from sin). The blood is for our sinful deeds; the cross is for the sinner himself. The blood is positional; the cross is dispositional. The blood takes care of condemnation and judgment; the cross takes care of all that which is natural and old. The blood grants us access to God; the cross gives God access to us. God is satisfied with the blood, but when the cross operates, God becomes satisfied with us. -> wow. **==KEY==**
		- Don't you want to satisfy God? Not just that He would see the blood, but now, the terminated self, this becomes something pleasing to God. Don't just aspire to have the blood on the door. Aspire to be on the altar, becoming a pleasant and satisfying fragrance to God.
		- We need a lot of lessons, a lot of learning, and because of that, a lot of mistakes, to allow the Lord to apply the crucifixion in our daily life. That's why the church life is so good. On the one hand, it have moments where it's so wonderful and sweet. But the reason why the church life is so marvelous, when you have the view, is that the church life forces a bunch of vessels, people, believers, who are not untransformed, but in the process of being transformed together. When you have ones who are not fully transformed, there will be offenses, friction, conflict, differences in opinions. These are all opportunities for us to experience the cross. In fact, sometimes we're wounded.
		- Once conference, brother Ron brought up a sister who was really wounded (not just offended) but another. There was the realization to a new dimension of experiencing the Lord. How can I forgive that sister who offended me? His realization was that she was not just offended, but wounded. **When you're in that situation, forgiveness is not what is needed. Termination is what is needed. Her need was not the blood; her need was the cross.**
		- And that's the church life. That's what marriage is for. Every kid you have is a little opportunity for the cross. Everyone represents an opportunity to experience the cross. Every now and then, my kids will say, I heard you talked about us, and you said *this*. Even that is an opportunity for the cross. If you happen to be the one who leaks it out, I was hoping what is said here stays within the confines of the training, tattlers. But even then, I have to learn to take the cross.
		- D. In addition to the flesh and self, there is the world. The flesh, self, and conscience are dealt with mainly for the growth in life. The world is dealt with to give us the power in our service, in our testimony. True spiritual power comes from dealing with the world. The more we sacrifice, the more we are powerful.
		- A couple of verses good in this respect: ((b055c002-a004-b1b1-b1b1-b1b1b1b1b1b1)). Affairs of this life can bog you down, if you are trying to serve as a soldier, the world can shackle us, strip us of our effectiveness, because we are no longer free but enslaved. ((b048c004-a003-b1b1-b1b1-b1b1b1b1b1b1)). For our gospel preaching to be effective, powerful, we need to sacrifice the worldly things. The more you sacrifice the worldly things, the more powerful you are.
	- II.
		- We know we are tripartite beings, we have spirit, soul, and body. Our spirit is the innermost part of our being. It's the part in which, through which, and by which we contact and absorb God.
		- So when we deal with our spirit, as opposed to dealing with flesh, self, more outward parts of our being, this dealing is a deeper kind of dealing. This dealing with the spirit is even deeper than dealing with our conscience.
		- A. Illustration of serving a drink. When you serve a drink, it's good to clean the cup. Both the outside and the inside. Give it in a clean vessel. That's like dealing with the flesh, the self. Dealing with the spirit is the contents of the cup; the water in the cup. I may have to give you a clean cup, but if the water has been contaminated, that's no good. So we need to have the dealing with the spirit so that we purify the contents of the cup. Our spirit must be pure because what we minister to people is not the cup, but the spirit that is in the cup. If the spirit is not clean or right, no matter how clean we are in receiving others, in what they are receiving there is still the defilement.
		- B. Different conditions of our spirit (from the Scriptures). These are positive conditions, but it shows how we can end up with a defiled spirit.
		- 1. A steadfast spirit ((b019c051-a010-b1b1-b1b1-b1b1b1b1b1b1)). A steadfast spirit is fixed, immobile, immovable even in opposition and opposition. When you minister with a spirit that is steadfast, it gives comfort to others. The last thing we want is when someone ministers the spirit, but you don't know what spirit you'll get today or tomorrow. If you're in a good mood, you get the good spirit, if you're in a bad mood, you get the bad spirit. I get affected by this too many times when dealing with my children. So I need a steadfast spirit.
		- 2. A spirit of power ((b055c001-a007-b1b1-b1b1-b1b1b1b1b1b1)). Power is against the enemy. Love is toward others. Love prevails; love is the best way we deal with others. Sobermindedness is in dealing with ourselves. Sometimes we're so diluted, thinking we're doing something. That's not operating with a spirit of sobermindedness.
		- 3. A spirit of meekness ((b048c006-a001-b1b1-b1b1-b1b1b1b1b1b1)). All the examples from the reading are wonderful. The brothers restore a spirit of meekness; ((b060c003-a004-b1b1-b1b1-b1b1b1b1b1b1)), the sisters with a spirit of meekness. Even though our spirit much be powerful in particular with the enemy, yet it needs to be meek, toward others and toward God. Powerful in a good way, toward the enemy, for the things of God. But it also needs to be meek toward others. Especially those you are tempted to judge. That's when we need to be meek. We need a spirit of meekness.
		- The whole point of having a spirit of meekness is that if you are shepherding someone with a judgmental attitude, you are not going to gain that brother. You have to approach him in a spirit of meekness. If you are high, haughty, proud, you'll either scare them or put them off.
		- 4. A lowly spirit ((b020c016-a019-b1b1-b1b1-b1b1b1b1b1b1)). This means not just to be meek. To be meek is not to fight for your interests, not fighting for your rights; it comes across as not being stubborn, non-relenting. A lowly spirit is different from a meek spirit. A lowly spirit is a humble spirit. You can even say something, pretending to be humble. It's real. That's why I love this class. All the examples, every time we go through it, I get exposed.
		- 5. Poor in spirit ((b040c005-a003-b1b1-b1b1-b1b1b1b1b1b1)). Poor in spirit, meaning it's an empty spirit, an unloaded spirit.
		- 6. An undefiled spirit ((b047c007-a001-b1b1-b1b1-b1b1b1b1b1b1)). Isn't our spirit untouchable, you can't defile it? Actually, the spirit may be as an organ there is nothing wrong with it. But the spirit is not a physical organ that stays in place. The spirit is something that flows, that's why you flow your spirit out. When it passes through your soul, then it becomes affected. So our spirit can be defiled. It can even be defiled through idolatry, witchcraft, spiritual darkness.
		- It used to be that Disney was a family channel. Marvel, ubiquitous now, there is so much witchcraft. And there was a period of time that every show was about vampires. All these things bring in spiritual darkness, and we need to guard against these kinds of things.
		- All these things affect the condition of our spirit, so we need to deal with these things, so that we can have a right spirit. A spirit that is steadfast, of power, love, and sobermindedness, meek and lowly, and poor in spirit and undefiled.
		- C. Because of the influence of our soul, that spirit can be affected. Illustration of fountains: hot springs in Colorado. Mountains, pristine, clean water, passing through filtration, all sorts of sediments. It also happened to be that that area, full of hot springs, case and sulfuric. You go into this water, it's clean, but it smells to high heavens. Even though it was pristine water, but because it passed through a formation that had this defiling element in it. This is water that has been dirtied by the passage. Not a problem with the water, but a problem with the passage.
		- For my spirit to reach your spirit, it has to pass through my outer being. There's no teleporting. My spirit has to pass through my soul, my body, received by your ears, passed through and processed with your soul, then reaches your spirit. All along the way, it can pick up certain elements. That's why we need to deal.
	- III.
		- The real sincerity is not in the heart, but actually in the spirit. God is Spirit, and those who worship Him must worship Him in truthfulness (reality) ((b043c004-a024-b1b1-b1b1-b1b1b1b1b1b1)). The spirit is the reality and sincerity of our being.
		- A. When we contact others in our emotion or mind, we're actually not being sincere with them, because our sincerity is in our spirit. That means if our interactions with one another, if it's natural, it's not real or sincere. In order to contact someone, you need to contact them in the depths of your being. That's why deep calls unto deep.
		- B. Losing your temper or when someone loses their temper is when you really see the sincerity, the real person, coming out. It may be ugly, but we know it's real.
		- I can't help but correlate this with my kids, who find it a sport to make fun of their parents. Like a sharp needle bursting our head. They're astute. When mommy prays (now please don't violate our trust), it seems like she's crying, she's about to cry. When daddy prays, it seems like he's yelling, like he's angry. This is in a meeting context (in the Lord's table specifically). I don't know if this is confirmation, but there should be some forcefulness when you exercise your spirit. If you've never prayed in a way that was so forceful, if your prayer is so collected and polished. Sometimes you pray, and you start and you don't know how to finish the sentence, if you haven't had this experience, then you haven't been beside yourself. Out of yourself. You're too collected.
		- In a sense, it is easy to release your spirit when you lose your temper. Of course, it says be angry, but do not sin. Often times, when you are angry, you don't realize the flesh and the spirit are. One minute you can be in the spirit, and just one little misstep, you are in the flesh.
		- Pretending. "Oh brother, I love you."  That may not be so sincere.
		- About the prayer meetings: a lot of times it's about what gets in our mind. Especially when we first start praying, we may not be so skilled in prayer. You do have to insert yourself in there, be forceful and be heard. A lot of times we're caught up in our mind, composing prayers. I can tell those who are composing prayers, when their prayer has an intro, development, and conclusion. The spirit has left halfway through their development, but they insist on going to the conclusion. In the first part, there is the spirit. A prayer meeting is a conversation with the Lord, and you're assigned a portion of it, not a full. And it's collected together, pieced together. Your prayer should not be fully packaged. That tells me that your mind comes in the way, you become conscious of others, sometimes we're aware of the content, someone just prayed the same thing right before. You get into your mind in the prayer meeting. So we need to learn to exercise our spirit and just pray. It doesn't have to be shouting, it can be, but there has to be a deliverance from the mind.
		- C. Read.
	- IV.
		- If you're ministering, your content can be good, but your spirit is wrong. This is many times. You need a clean and right and pure spirit, especially if you're dealing with someone who is offended. A surgeon has to operate with clean hands. You don't want to touch anyone without clean hands.
		- Our motives, intentions, desires, ambitions, will, and interests, all these things our spirit must be purified against.
		- We need to deal with our spirit, and release our spirit. But that spirit has to be a pure and right spirit. The only way we can do that is to allow the Lord to shine His light into us, to reveal all the parts in our being that are defiled[, and deal with that].
	- Sharing
		- Ezekiel: After reading this, I became very self-conscious of speaking. But I was reminded that we're in the training, and so if we want to mess up, we can mess up here. It really hit home what our intention is in speaking with one another, in this setting or outside of the classroom. I appreciate that we're just vessels, and we're all going through this process. In this process, there is the cross. The cross is sweet. Even there might be a point where my ego is a little hurt, because it didn't come out right, amen, Praise the Lord.
		- Lane: The reading reminded me of ((b042c009-a055-b1b1-b1b1-b1b1b1b1b1b1)). The Lord has touched me a lot this term that my content is okay, but my spirit is wrong. It's proud, with the intention exult myself or some glory. But the unutterable love of Christ. So the Lord still receives me in my impure state, and needs to be dealt with. He's the only one who can deal with us.