Hymns:: #1111 
Speaker:: #dyoon 
Subject:: Crucial Aspects of the Heavenly Ministry of Christ

-
- Message
	- Sharing
		- If you're ready to answer some of these questions, stand up immediately. Please speak concerning Christ as the High Priest. General question. Please speak concerning Christ as the Mediator of the new covenant, executing the new covenant enacted and bequeathed to us. Simeon you spoke last week right? You're that eager, how can we refuse you. How can we .. the propagation of Christ? How does the Lord in ascension build the church? Five more trainees to share whatever they enjoyed from the class or from the reading assignment.
		- Michelle C: We have a great High Priest who has been tempted... yet without sin. There are three reasons we can say the Lord can sympathize with us as the High Priest. The Lord Jesus went through the same feelings in His flesh. He was crucified on the cross, able to experience all limitations to sympathize with our weakness. Second, the Lord has love. The Lord touched the leper. We sympathize with those whom we love, even if we go through the same experiences.
		- Ty: The New Testament is a will that is bequeathed to us. He is the Mediator of a new covenant (verse)... We have been called by receiving the promise of the eternal inheritance. By Christ's death on the cross, He enacted the New Testament and He also validated and confirmed the New Testament, and in ascension H eis executing and enforcing this New Testament. What is the reality of the new covenant today? 2 Cor. 3:6 that it is the Spirit. We are ministers of the new covenant, of the Spirit. Our mingled spirit is the bank account of all the bequests in the New Testament. We just claim. We are glorious inheritors. We have a magnificent Mediator who through His ascension is enacting and enforcing the new covenant.
		- Simeon: Christ in His ascension is the Mediator of the new covenant, which is now the New Testament, enacted and bequeathed to us by His death. A covenant is an agreement to accomplish promises... #relisten but a testament is a will with certain things bequeathed to its inheritors. God promised that He would make a new covenant (Jer.). Now (in Luke) Christ has shed His blood, enacting this new covenant, confirming it. It is executed and confirmed by Christ in His heavenly ministry. Four facts: propitiation for unrighteousness and forgiveness of sins. The imparting of life; the blessing of God and being His people; the inward ability of knowing the Lord.
		- Grace Z: ... His death is so precious to us because on the cross He enacted the new covenant, which is also the New Testament, the will, to us. God has made us sufficient ministers of a new covenant, which is also ministers of the Spirit. So we see when the Lord resurrected, He became the Spirit. The Spirit is the reality of the new covenant. Today, the Spirit is joined to our spirit. We need to treasure our mingled spirit. Our mingled spirit is the bank account to cash in all the bequests of the New Testament. On the one hand, the Lord today is the Mediator of the new covenant to execute the New Testament and to make every bequest in it so real to us. We also need to exercise our mingled spirit to claim every bequest, to enjoy every bequest in the New Testament.
		- Isaac E: In Heb. 6:8, He has now attained a more excellent ministry... we have a better covenant! Enacted by such a Mediator. This One who has ascended to the haevens is contstanlty and always working to carry out the promises of God. The New Testament has so many wonderful promises, but we may be poor Christians, not realizing Christ has done everything. As New Testament ministers, priests, wehave the wonderful right to calim all the things that our first High Priest has done. Not only is He is the Mediator, He is the surety of the new covenant. We have prpof and confirmaiton that everything h e has said and done will come to pass. We're not hoping it will come to pass; we *know* it will come to pass!
		- Chocolate: The Lord will build His church... Christ has given the believers as gifts, and these gifts have been given to the church. Prophesied in Psa. 68:18. Fulfillment in Eph. 4. First in the secret ascension, He appeared to the Father as the firstfruits of resurrection. Second, publicly... in these two ascensions He has conquered Satan. These gifts are in the form of apostles, prophets, evangelists, and sheperds and teachers. These are not our natural abilities, but are gifted ... do not build directly, but...
		- Sharon S: Concerning Christ's work in His ascension, He ascended to the height those given captive, and gave gifts to men. These gifts are apostles, prophets, evangelists, and sheperds and teachers in Ephesians, and these are gifts are persons. They're not capabilities or enablements for a service, but these are gifted persons that do the work of the ministry unto the fulfillment of the building up of the Body of Christ. Difference in Psa. 68:18: received, but in the New Testament there is the fulfillment with "given." **The way to constitute us as gifts is to ask the Lord to defeat us every day. Have a growth in the divine life.** This means we need to experience this continual transmission. All that He has attained to the church. Through this growth of the divine life, the resurrection, we are constituted gifts for the building up of the Body of Christ.
		- Eleanor: Sanctify, cleanse, nourish and cherish the church. This is how Christ gains the church as the bride. In His sanctifying work He is ... He is also cleansing her by the washing of the water in the Word. This is that He would present the church to Himself glorious, without spot or wrinkle. The spots signify our naturalness, and the wrinkles our oldness. But He cleanses us. He even nourishes and cherishes the church. To nourish the church, He supplies us with His riches. In Christ's heavenly ministry, He's cherishing us, holding us close to Himself, to cause us to feel that He's so tender and sweet to us.
		- Suzi: Christ in His heavenly ministry is causing the believers to grow in life. This growth in life on the one hand is for the sake of the Body, and on the other hand takes place in the Body. If we are detached, we can't have the growth. We grow up into the Head, and from the Head issues... this growth can only take place in the Body. In the training, the more we're around each other, the more we're exposed, the Lord comes in to perfect us. Even though it's imperceptible to us, it causes us growth. Not for us to be solid Christians, but it's for one another.
		- Daniel: Heb. 2:9-10 is a marvelous portion: we see Jesus crowned in glory and honor. Lord, how much do I know You in Your person and work of ascension? For us to really know, we need to exercise our mingled spirit, because our spirit is the gate to heaven and the gate to the ascended Christ. We need to pray every day, Lord Jesus, reproduce Yourself in me, as a man crowned in honor, and a Man on the throne. This opened the way for many sons of glory. We are in this process! In Eph. 2:6, we see that we are seated in the heavenlies with Christ Jesus. We are in Christ 1 Cor. 1:30. We are in the ascended Christ. We are with Him crowned with glory and honor.
		- Tommy: Let the house of Israel know assuredly He is both God and Christ. Peter emphasized that the Lord was crucified. The crucifixion of the Lord was seemingly something of their doing, but Peter was saying that the Lord was sovereign over all things, that even the crucifixion of the Lord was sovereign of God for the accomplishment of His economy. In His ascension, His humanity was uplifted to become the Lord of all and the Christ of God.
		- Jason: Guaranteeing and ensuring the effectiveness of the New Testament. We have the assurance that the new covenant will be fulfilled in us. Faithful is He who called us He also will do it. He is the living and perpetual High Priest. In His ascension, He was appointed the High Priest. You are a priest forever (Heb.). A covenant is something binding. The Lord bound Himself to fulfill the new covenant. His priesthood is forever, and He lives to carry out His ministry... His priesthood is forever (4 reasons)...
	- Opening Word
		- It was wonderful to hear from all of you! You're surely learning to be prophets, those who speak for God and speak forth God and God into others for the building up of the Body of Christ.
		- What does it mean for the Lord in His ascension to build the church? In one sentence, can anyone tell us what it means for the Lord in His ascension to build the church? Jason: The Lord gave gifts .... That's very good, but I also emphasized two other points last Tuesday: The Lord builds the church by building Himself into us and by making His home in our hearts. This is the most intrinsic way the Lord builds the church. I also pointed out, the Lord uttered the greatest prophesy, I will build My church. But in 1 Cor., we see that He who prophesies builds the church. That means the one who prophesied, .... enter in to us to #relisten build the church. What Jason pointed out is also true. In particular the Lord in His ascension gave four kinds of gifted persons, and they perfect members of the Body, and the perfected members function in their measure for their function, ...
		- I'd like to echo what brother Daniel pointed out. By the Lord's mercy, we declare, exercising our spirit of faith, turning our heart to the Lord: we see Jesus crowned with glory and honor. Brothers and sisters, He's the most glorious, splendid one. He's also the most honorably, worthy, and valuable one. If we realize Him as such, this will affect the way we call upon the name of the Lord.
		- Again we come to the illustration of Mr. Jones, who appears to be a janitor at BoA, but is actually the president of BoA. Before knowing Him as the president, with a marvelous resume and achievements, you may say, hey Mr. Jones, what's up? Your conversation may be very lighthearted. But once you realize, your conversation will be [much more serious], ... we need to read the Lord's resume in His ascension before we call upon His name! The basic truth [person and work]. Then your contact and experience and enjoyment of Him will be greatly uplifted. You will hold Him in the highest esteem and you will love Him with the most ardent love and appreciation.
		- How could such brother speak so disrespectfully against Brother Lee and eventually rebelled? Brother Ron told me, that brother did not know Brother Lee's ... #relisten ... but if you are like brother Benson Phillips and other faithful coworkers, realizing Here is a brother who has the ministry of the age. he's the minister of the age with the vision of the age and the ministry of the age. That realization will cause you to have a very respectful contact with Brother Lee, and you will receive the greatest benefit from that Person's ministry. Brothers and sisters, there is a person in this universe who is in the heavens, and at this moment He is carrying out His heavenly ministry, the goal of which is nothing less than the organic building up of the mystical Body of Christ. For Him to carry out such a wonderful ministry, He's the Lord of all, He's the Christ of God, He's the High Priest according to the order of Melchisidec, He's the Son of Man crowed with glory and honor, seated at the right hand of God. Blessed are those who know Him in His person and work in ascension. This will greatly enrich your experience of this wonderful person.
		- I also recall the fact that the Lord Jesus entered into glory! Through His resurrection and ascension. He pioneered the way to glory. He opened the way for many believers to enter into the glory of God. Neil Armstrong said as soon as he stepped on the moon, one small step.. .I tell you, when the Lord in His resurrection and ascension entered into the glory of God, that was a great step for Himself. But it was also a wonderful, marvelous leap for the God-man kind which includes all of us as believers in Christ. This really gives us hope that we to as sons will enter into glory. Hallelujah. This is truly wonderful.
		- In the interest of time, I'd like to review some of the points I didn't cover. The Lord Jesus as the propitiation cover. Why do I want to cover this point? Because a very seeking trainee asked me the following question. I hope you have this question as well. How do we know, when Paul said in Rom. 3 God set forth Christ as a propitiation place, that Christ refers to Christ in His ascension rather than Christ in His crucifixion? Did you have this question? That means you're sober-minded and your mind is being trained. This is the question I asked myself. I'd like to give you the answer. Again I may not be able to cover all the points in the outline for the lesson, but I may come back for another message, so in that message I may cover some of the points more thoroughly.
		- Let's come back to Christ in His ascension being the propitiation place. In order for us to see how Christ is the propitiation place in our experience of His ascension, we need to see a picture a type of this in Lev. Act to Lev, on the day of Expiation, the High Priest brought the blood of the sin offering all the way into the Holy of Holies, and sprinkled this blood of the sin offering upon the lid of the Ark seven times. Then we are told, God would speak with and meet with this High Priest, from between the cherubim. Brothers and sisters, it is marvelous to see that in Psa. 80, we're told, you who are enthroned between the cherubim shine forth. That means the lid of the Ark, the cover of the Ark, is nothing less than the place where Jehovah God was enthroned. That's why the lid of the Ark can rightly be called the throne of grace, or the mercy seat.
		- Brothers and sisters, it's marvelous to see that God could meet with the High Priest and speak with the High Priest, because the requirements of His righteousness, holiness, and glory were satisfied. By the blood of the sin offering sprinkled upon the lid of the Ark. Why? Because the tablets of the covenant which refer to the ten commandments were covered by the lid of the Ark. Second, the golden lid of the Ark became red in color. You have to realize the ten commandments signify God's righteousness with all of its requirements. So the one hand the fact that the tablets of the 10 commandments covered signify God's righteous law was fulfilled. Second, the golden lid of the Ark corresponds to God's holy nature.
		- Btw, let me just tell you this out of my love for you. You know what brother Ron said once? I'm concerned for those who are not taking notes. This means one of two things: one, you have a photographic memory, and you have a tremendous mind. Second, you don't value being here. Brothers and sisters, I value you being in the full-time training. Again, I tell you in the seven feasts maybe you haven't taken notes so fiercely because those messages are recorded and edited. But you're not allowed to record this message. So what you get out of this message really depends on how many notes you take. Anyway I saw some person not taking notes. Brothers and sisters, treasure what you're hearing. I'm not speaking my own thing. If I speak my own thing I wouldn't ask you to take notes. But this is from the ministry. And I may test you, especially if your'e not taking notes. Now, Lord, cover me with Your precious blood and may the Lord cover that trainee. Now don't worry we're not living in an Orwellian society. but I say this for your benefit. But we are in the training not a conference. Remember that too.
		- How do we know the requirements of God's holiness were satisfied? Because the golden lid of the Ark signifies God's divine nature. The fact that it became red in color implies that the requirements of His holiness were satisfied. And the cherubim of glory, in Heb. 9 they could rejoice over God meeting indicates that the glory of God was also satisfied.
		- Brothers and sisters, let me tell you something wonderful. Here, the High Priest enjoyed the dispensing of the Triune God into Him. Why? Remember these three things. It is called the throne of grace, Heb. 4:16, and grace is God Himself as our portion to be our enjoyment by being dispensed into us. And we're told the cherubim is a cherubim of glory. According to Psa. 80:1, You who are wentorhed .. shine forth. When the God of glory shines forth, when He shines into you, He surely is dsing Hismfl into you. Thrid, He speaks with You. WHen He speaks with YOu, by His speaking He is imparting Himself into you with HIs life and nature. Isn't this wonderful? The words ... spoken spirit and life. It's not a small thing to be under the haerting of faith in the full-time training, because you are receiving the divine dispensing #relisten....
		- I'd like to epmahsize that the picutre presented in Lev. is actually amrvelouslesly fulfilled in ((b058c009-a012-b1b1-b1b1-b1b1b1b1b1b1)). I hope you see this and this will increase your appreciation of Christ in His ascension. "And not through the blood of goats and calves but through His own blood, entered once for all into the *Holy* *of* Holies, obtaining an eternal redemption." fn. 1: *Christ accomplished redemption on the cross, but it was not until He entered into the heavenly Holy of Holies through the redeeming blood, i.e., when He brought His redeeming blood to offer it before God, that He obtained the redemption that has an eternal effect.* Listen: fn. 2: *Since Christ as the Lamb of God took away the sin of the world (John 1:29) by offering Himself once for all on the cross as the sacrifice for sins (v. 14; 10:12), His blood, which He sprinkled in the heavenly tabernacle (12:24), has accomplished an eternal redemption for us.* On the one hand, as the Lamb of God, the Lord Jesus died on the cross to take away the sin of the wold. Not only so... #relisten He sprinkeld that precious blood of His in the heavenly tabernacle. Now the throen of God, which was only the throne of authority and jumgent, si now th ethrone of grace to the believers in Christ. Because the Lord's preicous blood satisfies God's requirements of His righteousness, holiness, and glory. Now we don't have to linger in the outer court. We can have boldness to enter into the Holy of Holies. Where are we rn? We are in Christ and on Christ as the propitiation place. We're standing on the lid of the Ark to meet with God,a dn God is speaking with sus, and He is gracing us and He's shinign on us as the God of glory. Brother Lee says, here we receive God's revelation, vision, adn instrauction. Brother Lee said Paul wrote all of His 14 epistles because He as abiding in Christ as his propitiation place. Brothers and sisters, the blood  of Jesus speaks betetr things than the blodo fo Abel. It is sspeaking forgivenes sof sins. You knjow what else it is speaking? It is bidding all of us, don't remain in your guilt, condemnation. Come forward to the Holy of Holies, with boldness, in the blood of Jesus, to receive the God... #relisten into you, so that you may receive revelation, vision, and instruction from Him for the carrying out of God's eternal economy. Now are you convinced Christ as the propitiation place is in His ascension?
	- The Lord Jesus today is sanctifying, cleansing, nourishing and cherishing the church.
		- Read ((b049c005-a026-b1b1-b1b1-b1b1b1b1b1b1)) and ((b049c005-a029-b1b1-b1b1-b1b1b1b1b1b1))
		- This shows us threes tages of Christ. On the one hand we're told Christ loved the church and gave Himself for her. This is Christ in the satege of incarnation. He is our judicial redeemer. he so love dus that He gave Himself up for the church. On the one hand He gave Himself up for me, because H eloved me. But we also need to have an eelnlarged view of teh Lord's redeeming death: He loved the church and gave HImself up for her. But Brother Lee said, His lvoe for the church did not stop with Him giving Himself up for her. He so loves us and still loves us that He is scing us by the cleasning of the washing word.
		- The word here is rhema. This si the Lord's direct and personal speak to each one of us. In order to get the rhema, we need to be constituted with logos. It is on the basis of tlogos that the Lord speaks to us rheam.
		- I can never forget as a senior in college i wwas super introspective, looking into mysle.f Im the worst sinner, Satan was lying to me. But then the Lord spoke this verse to me as if I had never heard it before ((b058c007-a025-b1b1-b1b1-b1b1b1b1b1b1)). That verse changed my life. It brought me out of othe captivity of instropection into the enjoyment of life, because that verse became rham to me.
		- The Lord didn't say the words you read in the Scripture are spirit and life. That's why each time you come to the Word and ministry, you need to ask the Lord, speak to me words that are spirit and life. Brother Lee said, pray-reading turns words in the Bible into the living words of the Lord. How precious it is to hear the Lord's voice when you read the word! The Lord surely sanctifies us and cleanses us.
		- Then remember in 1 Sam. the Lrod says, God does not look on the outward appearnace of man but on man's heart. Our heart is our real face.
		- Let me tell you this sotry. More than 10 years ago, shortly after I got married, I had a terible case of sunburn. My face was terribly disfigured, I had all sorts o fwirnkles. I was in my early 30s, but I looked like I was in my late 60s or early 70s. My wife couldn't look me in my eyes. Then I found out one way to remove those wrinkles is to wash your face with running water. I told myself, what if my physcial face with all these wrinkles reflects my own heart, full of wrinkels and oldness. Lord Jesus, I neeed the washing of the atre in the word. Wash me, sanctify me, remove every vestigae of th eold man in me.
		- Eventually, when you're fully immersed in the enjoyment eof the Lord washing and scing us, you willh ears these words s .s 4:4: you are altogether... no blesmish in you. This is not a dream. One day, sooner or later, the Lord will speak these words to you. And I'm reminded s.s. 7. I am my. desire... I'm so beautiful and in His eyes. ...Brother Nee said this is th ehighest attainment of the Christian life. Eventually what matters is not what others say about us. #relisten Allow me to say, what truly matters it he Lord's own evaluation of you. In Rev., the Lord said to the church in Smyrna, you are rich, others may think you are poor. And the Lord told the church in Laodicea, you think youare rich, but you are poor. What matters is not our own envaulation [or others' evaluation] .... eventually in Thes. Paul told the saint sthere that the Lord will establish your heart blameless and wholly in His coming ... one day, God will examine every part of your heart, and say every part of Nick's heart is blameless and holiness... because by the washing I have sanctified ... Isn't that wonderful?
		- Never forget the Bible is a reservoir of living water. Come to the Bible as the living water, and exercise your spirit.... then you will be sanctified. Every blemish and winkly will be removed, and you will be made part of the gloiorsu church qwho will match the Lord in every way for His satisfaction.
		- Now the Lord also cherishes and nourishes the church, because the church is His Body. I'll emphasize this one point. In [[LS Eph.]], Brother Lee points out the Lord cherishes and nourishes the church, the Body of Christ. That means in order for us to enjoy the Lord's cherishing and nourishing us, we need to attend the meetings of the church. On countless occasions by attending the prayer meetings, the small group meetings, the Lord's table meeting, the ministry meetings, FTTA classes, you're so cherished and nourished.
		- Brother Lee said, 90% of the dsing we need comes through the body that we need, no tjust through the Head. So we need to treasure the meetings of the church.
	- new covenant IX.
		- I tell you, brothers and sisters, this Lord's table meeting that I attended, Simeon can testify, I did pray: Lord, at Your table, at Your supper, we display your all-inclusive judicial redemption; Your marvelous death is displayed here. I said Lord, this cup is the new covenant. Thank You Lord for dying on the cross to enact the new covenant, and also to validate and confirm the New Testament.
		- For instance, Tommy may have a distant uncle who left a will to him worth billions of dollars. But what if Tommy leaves that will containing the testmane t bequeathed to Tommy, put it in a drawer and forgot about it. He lives as a person in poverty, asking for money. Don't you think the one who made this testament would be in deep grief if he had known about it?
		- let me tell you, the Lord Jesus enacted the new covenant through His death on the cross. Not only so, by dying on the cross, he also established and confirmend the New Testament. I'm so entharlled by our dear Lord who not only laid down His soul-life on the cross to enact the new covenant, but also to validate and confirm the New Testament. Because as soon as He died, resurrected, and ascended, He became the Mediator of the new covenant and the executor of the New Testament.
		- Brothers and sisters, all the blessings of the new covenant are now the bequests of the nt. This is such a treamendous fact. We need to as the Lord as the executor of the nt: Lord, execute these qeuqests to me. Make them real, avalibable to me. Lord Jesus. my grace is sufficient and my power is perfefcted in weakness. That is a bequest. In nothing be anxious...and the peace of God... guard... that is a bequest. I have learned to be content in whatever circumstances I'm in.  You need to thakn God and praise God for this beuques. Then this is for yours.
		- I had to work on my article for A&C, finally compmleted a draft. I was under considerable pressure. I jstu claimed these verses as belequest: My yoke is easy, amen! My burden is light, amen! I have rest in my soul! Amen. This will greatly increase your enjoyment in Christ than ever before.
	- Two points
		- How can you enjoy x as the mediator of the new and execeutore of the New Testament?
		- One, we need to read the Bible as our will. The Old Testament is a type of the nt. That means the entire Bible is a will and a testament to us. #relisten ... the joy of the Lor dis yours .. that's a bequest... No matter how severe my sufferings may be appareently. And we need to pray-read these verses day after day.
		- Second, we need to exercise our mingled spirit as the bank account. .. #relisten ... according to 2 Cor. 3:6, the Spirit *is* the new covenant. Ministers of the Spirit are the ministersisters of the new covenant. The Spirit is the reality of the new covenant, and this Spirit is mingled with our spirit, that's why our mingled spirit is the bank account of the new covenant. So you need to exercise your mingled spirit to read your will, your testament, which contains all the bequests bequethed to you through Hi snew testament-validating daeth.
		- In Isa. 46 we're told, I have given Christ Messiah and a covenant for the people.
		- Surety of the new better;
	- Paraclete (read)
		- I didn't get to cover this too much, but let me read ((b062c002-a001-b1b1-b1b1-b1b1b1b1b1b1))-2. He Himself is propitiation for our sins not for ours olnly but for the whoole world/
		- According to bn's ministry, it dosn't say after we say we have an Advocate. It says if we sin. So Brother Nee says, even while we are sinning, the Lord Jesus as our advocate, our attorney, is praying fo rus. Pleading organic unionr case before God who is the judge in the heavenly court. "I died for ths in that David commited and is committing right now. You must forgive that sin because you cannot ask Him to pay the pnatly for that sin twice, because I already apid the penalty. Otherwise, you're th unrighteous God." Brother Nee said, it doesn't say Jesus Christ the gracious our attnorey. The Lord is not pleading upon GO'ds grace in the havenly law. THat doesn't work. What works is when th elj says, look, I am the propitiation for all the sins of my believers. I died of rthose sins, and I'm praying for them that they would repent and confess their sins to receive forgiveness of sins.
		- Even Satan according to Rev. 12 is the accomplishuser who adcuses the brethren day and night. He's acusing you and me, blel, right? David, you're worthless, you should drop out of the ftt, you're not worthy to be in the Lord's recovery. Satan, ehre si my elder brother who is my heavenly attoerny. He's telling me õt to look ay my shortcomings, but by His ocercoming blood, wby which I conquer, overcome you and silecne your accusing motuh. The heavnely Father doesn't listen to Satan's accomplishusations. He's listening to the voice of our heavenly attorney! AOn the basis fo His propitiation for organic unionr sins.
		- Brothers and sisters, i fwe see this revn, we will instantly turn to our mingled spirit and repent and confess our sins, knowing the work of Christ in His ascension as the advocate to the Father.
	- XII. High Priest
		- We're going to cover this point shortly.
	- XIII.
		- Brothers and sisters, the Lord Jesus is the slave-Savior, according to the gosple of Mark. The fact that the Lord is mentioned again... shows us He is He is the slave will to serve God and us #relisten. And you know ... He is still serving us with the bequests of the New Testament, and He is mting the processed and consummated Triune God into us day by day.
	- XIV. - XV.
		- We all need to be messengers of the churches. Avery, can you say, Lord Jesus, make me a messenger of the church in Orange! That means you receive a fresh message from teh Lord to convey a message to the chruch... #relisten ... great gift...
	- Outline. Intro
		- This is outline is mainly based on [[LS Luke]] (reading)
		- I'd like to give you the assurance of where we are right now. It is of God that you are in Christ Jesus, who is not only the crucified and resurrected Lord, but also the ascended Lord. So we're not only in the ascended Christ, but you are also in His ascension, in the heavenlies.
		- Brother Lee pointed out, we can liken the Lord Jesus to a spacecraft. What if you are an astronaut and this spacecraft lands on the moon. Where are you? You're on the moon. What if it lands on Mars? You're on Mars. You're in Christ Jesus in His ascension. Consequently, you're seated in the heavenlies in Christ. Mario, it looks like you're sitting in a chair. You're actually sitting on the throne.
		- Let me read #475: one with thee, seated with ... thy rank our own. How marvelous is this. What is the rank of the Lord? He is head over all things to the church Astounding statement from the ministry: we are a part of the Head over all things. Do you realize this? Hallelujah! We're members of the Body of Christ, who is the head over all things, the Head of all rule and authority. This is really tremendous, brothers and sisters. And this reality is ours so long as we remain in our mingled spirit.
		- Brother Lee also pointed out, sometimes we're accustomed to saying the Head is in heavens and the Body is on earth. Strictly speaking this is not true. We're the Body of Christ on earth in union with Christ the Head. That's why Col. tells us, holding the Head. How can you hold the Head in His ascension? Because we're in union with Him, by the means of the Spirit of the glorified Jesus. Hallelujah.
		- Now Christ as the Head in the heavens is not alone. He's seated us with Him in the heavenlies in Christ. What a marvelous vision is this. Andy, if you see this vision, you'll Satan, I'm far over you. You're in the air; I'm in the heavenlies in Christ. It's not that Satan is on the second floor, we're in the third floor, and Satan is about to attack us. No, Satan is untouchable to us. What is California? It's a speck of dust. We're in Christ, therefore we're in the all-transcending... #relisten
	- I. Psa. 110
		- There is a message in the next term of the full ministry of Christ class where the entire lesson is devoted to covering Psa. 110. Although I treasure this Psalm, I will not cover it. I want the brother who covers that lesson to release his full burden.
		- In Heb. 5, Christ is the High Priest according to the order of Melchisidec. We know from ((b058c001-a003-b1b1-b1b1-b1b1b1b1b1b1)) that this book primarily reveals Christ in His ascension. This is like a very introductory remark. He is "the effulgence of His glory and the impress of His substance and upholding and bearing all things by the word of His power, having made purification of sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high." (Btw) it doesn't say right hand of God, but of the Majesty. God is the Majesty, He is the majestic one. The point is that this verse shows us this book unveils us the heavenly Christ, Christ in His ascension.
		- But we know assuredly that the Lord Jesus is the high priest according to the order of Melchisidec in His ascension because Psa. 110 verifies this. In Gen. 14, we have the first mention of the word "priest". Yes Noah functioned as a priest in the early part of Gen. when he offered the burnt offerings. But the first time the word is mentioned isn't according to the Aaronic priesthood, but the Melchisidec priest. We know that Psa. 110 is a bridge that joins Gen. 14 to Heb. 5. Paul speaks of Christ as the ascended Priest according to the order of Melchisidec .
		- Read ((b019c110-a001-b1b1-b1b1-b1b1b1b1b1b1)), ((b019c110-a004-b1b1-b1b1-b1b1b1b1b1b1)): "Jehovah declares to my Lord, / Sit at My right hand / Until I make Your enemies / Your footstool... Jehovah has sworn, / And He will not change: / You are a Priest forever / According to the order of Melchizedek." You see, brothers and sisters, the Lord is at the right hand of God because He is in His ascension, and it is in His ascension that He serves us as the High priest according to the order of Melchisidec.
	- II.
		- A really marvelous point. This is just a monumental point. Regarding this point, I'd like to share with you a very particular aspect of God's eternal economy. According to Eph. 1:10, which says... "... in Him." The goal of God's eternal economy is to head up all things in Christ. Let me ask you: What is the goal of Eph. 1? You may say to produce the church as the Body of Christ, the fullness of the one... eventually the church is the Body of Christ because (write this down): **God intends to head up all things in Christ through His Body, the church.** In other words, **the very Christ in whom God heads up all thing is not the individual Christ, but the corporate Christ.** A universal man, the one new man, of which Christ is the Head and the believers are the Body. What a revelation this is.
		- God's eternal intention is to head up all things in Christ. Nevertheless, Satan rebelled ... #relisten ... but second man. died on the cross to destroy, terminate, crucify the old man. In HIs crucifixion He also created the one new man. We are members of the church as the one new man. Praise the Lord for this glorious [fact!].
		- Now **God in Christ must first head us up**. Then through the headed up Body, the Lord will be able to head up all things in the universe. An hour is coming when lion and lamb will dwell together. All the chaos, not only in human things but among all animals, will be resolved. Don't you want to hasten that day?
		- Eph. 1:10, the fulfillment of Eph. 1:10 depends upon Eph. 1:22-23 (write this down), which depends on Eph. 4:15. Why do you say this? In order for God to head up all things in Christ, He must gain the church as the Body of Christ, the instrument, the means by which God will head up all things in Christ. But in order for us to be the Body of Christ through whom God will head up all things, we must grow up ... #relisten The way we use internet, the way we speak, even the way we think and evaluate ourselves, these are the things in which we need to grow up into Christ as the Head. Lord, head me up in You, so that I may be used by You to carry out God's intention to Head up all things in Christ.
		- I must confess I probably spent too much time on this. But let me tell you good news. When the Lord Jesus resurrected and ascended, God was operating in the resurrected and ascended Christ, surpassingly great power. We all need to see this great power in Eph. 1 We need to receive a spirit of wisdom and revelation to know the power in which God operated in Christ, in .... and giving Him to be head over all things to the church. God gave Christ to be Head over all things *to* the church. Not for the church, but to the church. Brothers and sisters, in the same passage, we're told the surpassingly great power of God is toward those who believe. You know what this means? The fourfold power, resurrecting, subjecting, transcending, heading up power, is being transmitted to the church, the Body of Christ, composed of the believers in Christ. That means all that Christ has obtained, attained ... #relisten ... illustration
		- That's why Paul said right after God gave Christ to be Head over all things to the church, which is His Body, the fullness of the One who fills all and in all. Would you like to receive the transmission of all that Christ has ... into you hour by hour? So that you may be one with the Head over all things to the church to head over ...
		- Brother Lee said, even when I was a young person, I felt I was above all the presidents, because he was living in his mingled spirit. His human spirit joined to the Lord Spirit. Brothers and sisters, every thing save God is under our feet, because we are members of the Body of Christ who is the Head over all things. Remember that for the rest of your life.
		- Let us consider how we can experience this day by day as our enjoyment. **First and foremost, we need to receive a spirit of wisdom and revelation** in the full knowledge of Christ, that this power of God is ours, because it is transmitted to the church. We need to ... #relisten ... as the organic Body of Christ.
		- **Second, we need to claim this power, apply this power, by faith.** Brother Lee said this is the sequence of our experience in God's New Testament economy. First, we need to see the truth, believe the truth, speak the truth. Then you will experience the truth. Quite often, you say I've experienced this truth, so I can speak on it. That's wrong. Let me repeat: see, believe, speak, and then experience the truth, then it will be yours. I can testify to this, by the Lord's mercy.
		- **Third, we need to be strengthened with the fourfold power of God through His Spirit.** In Eph. 3, Paul prayed, Father, stregnthen us with power, the fourfold power, resurrect. ... into our inner man... Don't you have a fresh appreciation of this prayer? Because **it is through this prayer that we can enjoy the fourfold power of God.** This power of God is a person, the resurrecting and transcending Christ Himself, because Christ is the power of God... #relisten
		- **Four, we need to remove all that insulates us from this power by the confession of our sins.** One electrician told us that even a piece of wood can insulate us from enjoying the electricity transmitted into our home. Lord Jesus, remove every piece of insulation that cuts us off from the enjoying the transmission ... #relisten ... we need to empty our whole being to the Lord. This is really wonderful.
		- **Lastly, we need to live in the church the Body of Christ and keep the oneness of the Body.** On the one hand, this fourfold power which is nothing less than the transcending Christ.. transmitted to those who believe. That means we need to exercise our spirit of faith to believe.... Second, #relisten ... keep the oneness of the Body of Christ to enjoy this power transmitted to us day by day.
	- III.
		- For those not familiar with Gen. 14, here is the storyline. Abraham's beloved relative nephew was captured, because four kings defeated Sodom and captured Lot and all of his possessions. A person who found out what happened to escape and reported this to Abraham, and Abraham made a swift decision to fight for his brother, and he defeated the four kings and brought Lot and his possessions back. On the way back, he met Melchisidec, who is the king of righteousness, the king of Salem, the king of peace. And Melchisidec blessed God and blessed Abraham, and ministered to Abraham bread and wine.
		- Of course, Melchisidec refers to Christ as the High Priest. Abraham refers to a glorious fighter. The principle of the first mentioned is critical because it sets the principle of that matter. The first priest mentioned is not Aaron who set... #relisten but Melchisidec who ministered and wine. So the principle is to minister God as food and drink...
		- How is it that Abraham with only 318 men could defeat four kings, who must've had generals with military expertise and whose armies could've numbered more than 10,000? Because someone was praying for Abraham. Melchisidec was praying for Abraham. Abraham also lifted up the most high God, the possessor of earth and heaven, before he went to war.
		- It was not to poor vile sinners but a glorious fighting victor that Melchisidec appeared. Would you like to enjoy Christ as our ... according to Melchisidec? Ministering to us read and wine. You have to be a glorious fighters.
		- I appreciated in Psa. 104 that wine cheers man's heart, and bread sustains man's heart. You need to be cheered, be sustained.
		- You need to enjoy the Lord as the High Priest according to the order of Melchisidec. In order for us to enjoy the Lord as the high priest... , we need to do three things. **One, the Lord Jesus is praying for us.** Abraham didn't know this because Melchisidec was hidden from view. But we know! According to Heb. 7:25, He ever lives to intercede for us, that we may be saved to the uttermost. Even if all the saints may forget us, to pray for us, there is someone praying for us unceasingly and perpetually.
		- He is able to save you to the uttermost. You may not be able to save yourself from sins, trespasses, and the world. ... But He is able. #relisten ... until He makes you a being in the New Jerusalem.
		- Now, Abraham prayed before He went to war. This means, brothers and sisters, we need to echo the heavenly interceding Christ, pray for so many lost, dormant brothers. I was touched that Brother Lee said, Samuel Chen who eventually was appointed an elder in the church in LA, was as dormant brother. This indicates to us that we should pray for .... we are also dormant in many ways, buts someone fights for us.
		- We can fight for the brothers! .... Brother Lee.... this is the heart we need...
		- **Second, we need to have full trust in the Lord.** How could Abraham make such a swift and bold decision to fight for his brother against overwhelming odds? Because He trusted in the Lord. That's why....
		- Third, we need to... our troublesome mind, natural mind, our unruly and natural emotions, l.... all religions such as Judaism and Catholicism. When you conquer these kings one by one, during the whole day, at night, He will come to you as Melchisidec, ministering to you bread and wine.
		- ==Melchisidec is doing three things for us==: **Praying for us, burdening for us to fight for and recapture the lost brothers. Second, He is blessing us and blessing God.** It is interesting that Melchisidec blessed God and blessed Abraham. **Lastly, He supplies us a with the processed and consummated Triune God as bread and wine.** Hallelujah for such a wonderful High Priest!
		- **This also has consequence for our reward in the millennial kingdom.** Right now, our heavenly High Priest according to the .. is hidden from view, but He's praying for us, and He's supplying the glorious fighters with the processed and consummated Triune God ads bread and wine. But our fighting for Him will cause Christ to be manifested as the king of peace and of righteousness. Just as Abraham's fighting for lot caused Melchisidec to appear as the king of peace and king of righteous. Don't you want to participate in fighting for your brothers. ... so that one day He will #relisten I tell you, He will come to us with the full taste at His coming. But day after day, we can have the foretaste of the visitation and appearing of Melchisidec who comes to us with bread and wine, as we pray for our lost brothers, trust in the Lord, .... conquer all our enemies. May we enjoy ... day after day. So that we may be found as overcomers who bring in the manifestation of the Lord Jesus as the king of righteousness and the king of peace, until the whole earth is filled with righteousness and peace, where the Lord will rule with His overcomers as His co-kings for 1000 years.
		- I will cover IV. when I return.
		- -> As Melchisidec, Christ ministers not only redemption to us but also bread as life.
- Sharing
- Further Study / Questions